okay so um so welcome everybody to see
s11 7:47 neural networks for NLP if you
thought you were in a different course
feel free to leave now I won't I won't
be make you too embarrassed so I I think
a lot of the people here are how many
people here are the second year or above
the CMU about two-thirds maybe and then
first year okay one third um so that's
great um I am going to be talking about
neural networks for NLP I think the
reason why people signed up for this
class is because you realize that this
is a very interesting and you know
promising research area that you can
really do a lot of interesting stuff
with and that's why I'm interested in
this as well so this is a relatively big
class for LTI I think we had maybe 75
people signed up last time I checked but
still this room doesn't feel too big so
I think we can make it interactive and
have lots of discussion in questions and
stuff like that knowing to do so um one
of the nice things about being here at
doing this class of LTI is that while I
do tend to know a lot about neural
networks for NLP for any one of these
particular areas there's a pretty good
chance that someone in this room might
know more than me so if that is if this
is your area and you really know this
well and would like to give additional
comments or point out things I missed or
something like that I'd very much like
that and I'd like this to be you know an
interactive class where we can all learn
from each other as well um so this time
I'll talk about the class format but
before I do so I'd like to motivate why
why we'd like to use neural networks for
NLP in the first place and the answer
here is
that language is hard and we've spent a
lot of time trying to solve language or
get language to work with computers and
just to give an illustration of this I'd
like to test do the thing that we do in
linguistics we don't do it so much in
NLP but show sentences and say are these
sentences good English so first sentence
Jane went to the store okay yeah okay I
see people nodding store - Jane went
this is probably not OK in any language
in the world if you translate the word
squared for words so the you know it's
word salad the words are the same but
we've got to get them in the right order
of course what about this one
Jane one store yeah we can understand
what it's saying so not bad this is
perfectly good in Chinese if you
translate it word for word right so in
Chinese you don't have determiners but
in English you have to use them Jane go
to this store so this is you know this
is something you might hear a one and a
half or two year-old say when they've
just learned how to use the past tense
but they don't quite know how to make
exceptions to the past tense here and
the store wept to Jane this is probably
not okay but what about the food truck
went to Jane this is pretty this is
pretty reasonable you know especially if
Jane was saying hey come come over here
I'm gonna buy something from your food
truck then you know this is something
you could conceive conceivably say in
English so if we think about the
difficulties in expressing this we can
come up with engineering solutions to
all of these problems right so you know
in order to determine whether these are
good
not for the first one we can you know
create a grammar of the language if we
I'm assuming that everybody here has
taken in NLP class of some sort yes that
was in the prerequisites so um you could
write down a context-free grammar or
something like that that would basically
generate the language and it wouldn't
generate crazy stuff like having went at
the end of an English sentence with
after it and it wouldn't generate it
probably wouldn't generate the story if
you wrote it it wouldn't generate store
without a determiner if you wrote it
correctly although that's actually a
tricky problem you also need to consider
morphology you need to consider that
let's see
decided is a good guess tense but goat
is not good past tense so decided being
good past tenses regular morphology
while goat is it's not you also need to
consider semantic categories and
preferences so you need to consider that
this store is not something that's
likely to move especially on its own
volition it's not likely to move on its
own and but there are also exceptions so
just because it's something that sells
something just because it's a store
doesn't mean it can't move so this is
really hard and people spent a lot of
time trying to fix this um have people
heard of the psych project cyc not
really okay so this was a big a big
grand scheme for knowledge
representation that basically meant to
write down all of the common-sense
knowledge that people who speak English
know in the works on it for actually
maybe that past tense is not correct
they're they're still working on it but
you know you get exceptions and
exceptions of exceptions and it's really
really difficult to you know write
anything down in a declarative way
you can write down things that are
useful but it's very difficult to write
down everything and then things suddenly
get more tricky when you consider all of
the other you know languages in the
world
you know there's various estimates of
how many languages in the world anywhere
from 5,000 to 7,000 then minus one for
English you haven't really made a big
dent so now we have all these other
sentences and there might be one or two
people in the class who can do the same
thing here but but not a whole lot so
yeah in summary we have phenomena to
handle we have morphology we have syntax
semantics world knowledge discourse
pragmatics multilingual tea and all of
these are hard to do correctly and all
of these are much harder to do correctly
if we want to do them in all the
languages so that that brings us to why
we want to use neural networks so neural
networks are basically two tools to do
hard things from my point of view you
ask different people you ask different
people things they might be an
interesting kind of thing to study on
their own but me as an NLP person in the
person who likes language I view these
mainly as a tool and that's how I'll be
presenting things in this class is a way
to solve our problems
so today this is probably the easiest
problem I'm going to talk about in this
class which is it's still a very hard
problem but the easiest problem I'm
going to talk about in this class is
sentence classifications so we're given
a sentence and we want to decide whether
this sentence is a you know of a
particular type or not and specifically
we can talk about sentiment
classification where we take I hate this
movie I love this movie and these two
perhaps obviously
become one of these categories obviously
the first one is probably very bad and
the second one is very good so a first
way we can do this is we can do bag of
words which I assume that people are
familiar with we take I hate this movie
we basically look up a vector for each
of these and what these vectors will
look like is basically the first element
in the vector is how likely is this to
correspond to very good
the second element in this vector is how
likely is this to corresponds to good
the third element is neutral bad very
bad etc so then we basically have a
vector where eight would have a very
high score here maybe two point zero and
then one point 0 negative and then love
would have one that looks like this but
just in Reverse then we add these
together we can also add something
called a bias vector which just says how
frequent are each of these classes in
our training set and we add them all
together we get some scores we may be
normalized using a soft max function
which we can talk about later if you
don't already know what it is and we get
probabilities so probabilities of very
good good neutral bad very bad etc um
but it's very very easy to break this
you know to break this kind of model so
we just come up with something like I
don't love this movie and now suddenly
we have the word don't in it but what's
this model going to do with the word
don't we give it a vector it might make
it might reduce the probability of the
extremes but it couldn't do something
like flipping like flipping things
together or in the other direction so in
reality this would be bad and then we
get something a little bit more
complicated like there's nothing I don't
love about this movie which has a double
negative and might be difficult for you
to parse if you don't look at it very
carefully but this is actually extremely
good this is like probably one of the
best things you could possibly write in
a review but it still has don't and it
has nothing etcetera or it still has
don't love so it you know it's pretty
difficult to to handle this with just a
bag of words um so I actually stole the
title here from this challenge task
that's going to appear at a MLP I don't
know if you guys have seen this but I
thought this was a really good really
interesting idea so the idea is there's
two teams there's one team of builders
so builders are people like most of the
people in this room we like to build
systems that do well on certain tasks
then breakers are people like like
linguists who think you know I think a
lot of people in the room are have
linguistic you know experience as well
but in with in linguistics there's a
concept of minimal pairs where you
basically take one one sentence and do a
minimal change of it to try to turn it
into another sentence and so the
linguists and then go in and do a
minimal change to the sentence and try
to break the systems and I think the
linguists will do very well if this task
because I don't think our systems are
very robust to the kind of things that
people the kind of attacks that people
could come up with but uh it might be
worth checking this out so you know at
first we can one way we could sell this
is by coming up with combination
features so if we have don't and love in
the same sentence then probably then
probably this indicates that
you know it's not as positive as it
would be normally if we have nothing if
we don't I love and nothing this might
be indicative of the phrase nothing I
don't love which is you know a good
phrase this is kind of a stretch because
I'm still working within the bag of
words model but you you know if you
combine these features together you can
end up you can end up with something
significantly more powerful than you
have people um so the basic idea of
neural networks if for people who aren't
familiar is they're really really good
ways to pick out combination features to
take in you know multiple pieces of
input combine them together in kind of
fuzzy ways and and do something useful
with them so the example of this here is
we do our forwards we look up something
about them here then we take a neural
net and we use it to do some complicated
function to extract combination features
we use these combination features to
calculate scores and then we do the same
thing we calculate the softmax and get
probabilities and suddenly because we're
able to handle more complicated
phenomena we get better battery accuracy
so you know this is if that's all there
was to it then I wouldn't be teaching
this class because I we wouldn't have
much to teach but you know obviously
it's more complicated than that but
that's the basic idea um are there any
questions so far for discussion
Trumpy you saying that you know it's not
a legitimate use learning - well he
doesn't agree with using them are back
to language how do you think about oh so
you need to read his post carefully
actually and he wrote the textbook that
I'm using in this course so I think you
have Goldberg knows better than anybody
else how useful neural networks are for
for deep learning and we're very good
friends actually what he was saying was
um with respect to a particular paper it
was using a very constrained version of
natural language than claiming to solve
problems of natural language and he if
people haven't seen his post you can you
can look up you of you'll have Goldberg
medium posts explosion or something like
that
I'm sure you'll you'll get you'll get
the post but the the the idea was
basically that you deep learning is
great but you shouldn't be solving
claiming to sell natural language when
actually what you're handling is not is
not natural language or it's a very
restricted version okay I'll move on so
um first I'm going to give a very brief
overview of neural networks so neural
networks specifically the named neural
networks kind of stems from the fact
that neural networks were originally
designed to model the brain and you know
that that's a great motivation to have
and it's led to some advances in neural
networks like convolutional neural
networks were somewhat inspired by how
how our brain processes information but
in reality now the neural networks we
use in NLP have
absolutely nothing to do with the brain
they don't resemble what we're doing in
the brain whatsoever although some
people you know occasionally try to say
this is how this is how our brain works
sir this is how babies learn or
something but a more a more accurate way
to say neural networks is a string of
functions that are differentiable or
more accurately sub differentiable but
basically differentiable and that we can
you use to combine together to get
complicated functions and a good way to
express that's a kind of intuitive and
straightforward way to express that is
what through computation graphs so a
computation graph basically consists or
we use a computation graph to express a
mathematical expression so if we start
out with the very simple mathematical
expression X basically this is a node in
the graph so it's also useful to call it
a labeling of a node in a graph
so um well you'll see what I mean later
but it's basically a node in the graph
and a node is basically it represents a
value and the value is it could be a
scalar a vector a matrix or a tensor
basically a scalar is 0 dimensional it
doesn't have any dimensions to count a
vector is one-dimensional it has a
length and that's it a matrix has the
number of rows and columns and then the
tensor guess is a generalization that
has n dimensions so you can view a
vector as in a one-dimensional tensor a
matrix is a two dimensional system then
we can also have other nodes in the
graph that are basically functions of
their inputs like this so you'll notice
the expression up there change to X
transpose so we can view X transpose as
the node
we applied the transpose operation to
the input X and so an edge represents
basically a function argument the input
to the function transpose and it also
represents a dependency between between
these between these dots and a node with
an incoming edge is a function of the of
the tail node and a node knows how to
compute its value in the value of its
derivative with regard to each argument
so I mentioned that neural networks are
basically strings of differentiable
functions this is important for learning
they need to be differentiable so each
node or each expression that we apply us
to know it's derivative and then we can
also have no Larry unary binary and airy
functions so an example of a binary
function would be a matrix multiplied
like this our matrix vector multiply we
can also multiply by X for example so
computation graphs are directed and it's
cyclic ignore the indictment part we'll
talk about that later and we can do all
kinds of stuff tricky stuff we could
also do something where we define a
special x time transpose times a times X
node if we use this frequently but it's
less important - it's not super
important to do that and then basically
we combine all these things together and
then we have a sum operator at the end
and we get this we get this function so
this is our final function of interests
that we want to calculate which is
basically a kind of polynomial vector
polynomial expression here so that's the
shape of the graph is everything clear
here yeah okay
so as I mentioned before variables are
basically labels on nodes so if we say y
equals this expression what we mean by y
equals is this particular node is this
particular node which is the result of
all this computation is named Y so we we
basically set Y to be
um so there are algorithms that we can
perform over these computation graphs
and this is how we do neural network
evaluation and training so the first one
is graph construction that's what we
just did we just built up the graph by
applying by gradually applying
operations then forward propagation or
forward value computation basically what
we do is in topological order we compute
the value of the node given its inputs
so there we go so an example of forward
propagation we start out with our inputs
so all of our inputs we assume are given
we assume we don't have to do any
calculation and they're given to us by
the by the function and then now we go
in topological order over all of these
nodes here so this is a these are the
nodes that currently are ready to be
computed so we we walk over and maybe
compute this one it becomes X transpose
we compute this one to calculate that
value step over like this until we
finally get our final values so the
important thing here is that each
operation we're doing is a simple
operation it's a sum it's a transpose
it's a matrix multiplied but by
combining together these these
complicated operations we can get
something more significantly more
sophisticated so are there any questions
about this okay
so our second set of algorithms are back
propagation which processes the examples
in Reverse topological order and
calculates the derivatives of the
parameters with respect to the final
value in most cases the final value is a
loss function I'm not going to talk
about this this class but basically it's
an example of how poorly you're doing on
your on your task let's say sentence
classification and then after that and
so when I say reversed topological order
it's basically exactly the same thing we
did it in the forward pass except we're
calculating the derivatives in the
backward in the backward direction and
like the forward pass because each
function each elementary function is a
simple function it becomes very easy to
do this and then finally we do if we're
training a neural network we do a
parameter update again I'm not going to
talk about this a lot I'll talk about
this in a little bit more detail next
class but basically once we have the
derivative of the loss of the loss
function with respect to the parameters
we can move the parameters in a
direction that reduces the loss of
function so so this is the basic idea
and how we're able to train things so I
should mention that there are reading
materials for this class which I'm going
to cover later um for some for many
people in this class I think this part
might seem very slow and there's lots of
stuff that you know already for some
people in this class this might seem
very new and there's lots of stuff that
you don't know at all in order to kind
of balance in order to kind of balance
between these people who have who know
this already in people who don't know
this very well um the first week I've
assigned lots of reading from Yaffa
Goldberg's book uh so it's a
very um it's very well written in that
it's not complicated it's not overly
complicated and just explains the
salient salient concepts but still there
might be things that you don't
understand in which case I encourage you
to ask us ask me or the TAS I should
mention the book if you're in CMU we
have a contract with the publisher so
you can download it for free which is
which is a good things um so let's move
back to a concrete example um so in this
class this class is going to be
relatively implementation and
implementation example heavy so the idea
is basically I'm going to talk about I'm
going to talk about things for the first
maybe half of the class or slightly more
and then we're actually going to show
how these ideas are put into practice
and maybe try it out on data and and you
know observe what goes on there um in
order to do that you could implement
everything in MATLAB which is what
really hard core neural network hackers
do but I don't encourage you to do that
um because now there's a huge number of
very nice neural network frameworks that
make your job much much easier so
roughly in chronological order piano is
a neural network framework that came out
and I checked the github commits the
first like log on github indiana was
actually 2008 it might have been around
before then but its first kid commit was
there and then there's also other things
like cafe there's dinettes which is the
framework that I'm making and we're
going to talk about a little bit more in
class there's chainer
and Mac's Nats tensorflow and I torch
these are splits into the left side and
the right side does an observant person
know what the difference between the
left side and the right side is yes
static and dynamic so the idea here is
so um I I will um I have reasons for
recommending dynamic frameworks which
I'll explain in a little bit
so but anyway static frameworks are on
the left
dynamic frameworks are on the right and
I'm actually kind of the bottom two our
static frameworks are are very active
development and they've kind of realized
the necessity to have dynamic
computation of some sort so there's
tensorflow fold and MX net glue on which
are kind of ways to fit dynamic stuff
within these frameworks but I could talk
a little bit more about those later um
but the basic process for training in a
dynamic network framework is that we we
first create a model we define our model
parameters that we'd like to use then
for each training example we create a
graph that represents the computation
that you want to do so like I said we
like you saw the polynomial before we
define that graph we calculate the
result of that computation and if
training we perform back propagation and
update so the way this contrasts to
static frameworks which I probably
should have put on the slides but I
realized now that I didn't is static
frameworks you create a graph that
represents the computation you want to
do before you start processing any data
whatsoever so if you're familiar with
tensorflow
you basically design your your your
neural network and then you pass the
data to that neural network that you've
already designed using data iterators
and stuff and static frameworks have
some very nice advantages like they're
easier to parallel wise it's easy to
queue up lots of data and process
it's in process things but the
disadvantage of them is that they kind
of make you fixed in to do a particular
type of computation at the very
beginning and because of that for
natural language processing where we
have lots of dynamic structure and and
more complicated things and just like a
fixed size image for example dynamic
frameworks tend to be much more useful
and I think most people who have tried
both um and in particular I'm going to
be giving code examples in dinettes the
biggest reason for this I won't lie is
because I made it and I'm I'm much
better at programming in dinah than
anything else it also has another a
couple advantages its intuitive this is
true for all dynamic frameworks I think
compared to tensorflow or Theano in
general it's it's easier to program in
for example native Python code as
opposed to doing complicated things um
it's also fast for complicated networks
on the CPU it's faster than auto-da-f
libraries chain or PI torch MX net glue
on I I actually profiled something
against PI torch recently and took 14
seconds to train a tiger on a torch in
one point seven seconds to train on
Dinitz but the PI towards people
realized that found that that profiling
result and now they're trying to fix a
torch to make it faster so within a
month or two pi torch might be a similar
speed to dinette but I think it still
won't be quite as fast because we're
making certain sacrifices in the design
of dinette like how we allocate memory
and stuff which makes it kind of
inherently fast it also has some nice
features which maybe I'll talk about on
Thursday that make implementation easier
which is stuff like automatic batching
etc the other really good choice would
be PI torch for this class I think
next a little bit okay so I mean my main
concern was whether the TAS could give
feedback about about your assignments in
pi torch and it sounds like they can so
I would recommend I'd recommend using
either dinette or high torch in your
implementation chainer is very nice but
it's incredibly slow on CPU MX net gluon
is very new and kind of untested if you
feel adventurous and want to try to use
MX net you can try try that and tell me
but we won't be able to give you any
feedback on your assignments unless we
unless we study it ourselves
so anyway I'd like to give some examples
I'll be giving lots of examples in class
so this is the first example here the
basically this is a very simple thing to
calculate a function and use it to
calculate a value from few vectors so
first we import the library of course
dinah at the beginning of training every
training example you have to renew the
computation graph and basically clear it
out for your next computation this is a
result of our memory allocation that
makes it fast for examples so that's why
you need to do this then there's also
you can do inputs of one two three four
five six seven eight you can add the
vectors together and multiply them and
at a constant concatenate them all
together and print the value like this
um one kind of tricky thing about
dinette which has a reason which has a
reason but it's you need to understand
it at first is that when you're writing
out the computation graph here you're
just defining the computation graph
you're not doing any actual computation
so basically this v6 this is um a node
in the computation graph it's not an
actual value and then to get the actual
values you have to call this NP this
empty value function which will return
the value is an umpire
numpy array so this is a node in the
computation graph are also also called
an expression and then this is the
actual array of results of your
computation so we actually um if you use
a profiler you will you'll notice that
all of the work is being done here all
the time is being spent here because
that's where the computation is going so
yeah so what you do is you create basic
expressions you combined them together
using operations the expressions result
symbolic computations so they don't
actually represent values they represent
symbols in the computation graph and
then you can perform actual computation
so we have models and parameters so
parameters are the things we'd like to
optimize over there vectors or matrices
and then the bottle is a collection of
parameters actually I think sorry these
slides I've used other places and I
realized they're a little bit old the
model is actually not that we called a
parameter collection which makes it more
obvious that it's a collection
parameters and the parameters live in
the model and don't live in the
computation graph so if we want to
define parameters let's say we want to
do a matrix multiply or an F I'm f-fine
transform which is a matrix multiply
plus a vector we define we define
parameters like this and then we input
our vector we input our parameters so
every time you use some parameters you
actually have to input them into the
computation graph because these
parameters are stored in the model not
not in the computation graph and then we
do a multiplication like this and we can
calculate the result of our computation
um yeah you can do parameter
initialization maybe I'll talk about
that later
and then we have something called a
trainer so this is what does the updates
of our parameters we can compute
gradients by calling the backward
function from
representing a loss function and the
update to update the model parameters
using the gradients so this is an
extremely simple instantiation of a
training algorithm in neural networks so
what we do is we we define the model up
top we define a trainer using SGD which
we can talk about next time we add
parameters then we loop through doing
some sort of calculation and undoing the
backward step in the update so what
we're actually doing here is for 10
times we will we have a vector of
parameters that's 10 long we input the
parameters of computation graph we
calculate their dot product we calculate
the forward and then we calculate the
backward and we do the update so what
this is going to do is this is going to
try to reduce the value of this dot
product here so if we ran this for more
than 10 iterations if we ran this for a
thousand iterations does anyone have an
idea of what the result of this
computation would be this is a short
quiz or what the result of this process
would be so what we're doing is we're
we're calculating gradients and then
we're taking a step in the direction
where we would like to reduce the dot
product between the parameters
that would be a very good answer if we
had two vendors but we actually only
have one factor yeah exactly zero
vectors so the dot product if you take a
dot product err with a dot product of
itself it would become zero so um this
shows how you can get a zero vector
which is not very interesting and P dot
zero is this much faster than this but
this is the simple example here um yeah
we have lots of different ways to do
training yeah sure um so the model I can
explain this a little bit more but
basically basically we have a bottle
that lives over here with all our all
our parameters like W C or something
like this and then we create a graph and
when we call this or let let me say this
is P V when we call this dye dot
parameter P V function what this does is
it moves it over here and assigns it to
V it moves it into the computation graph
so then what we're optimizing over what
trainer that update does you'll notice
at the very beginning trainer dot update
is defined with a model so it's
optimizing over that model basically so
it will optimize all the parameters in
this model it will optimize them even if
they aren't used in a particular
instance of the graph so does this make
it any more
yeah so the question is if you don't
want to optimize over it you don't put
it into the model and yeah basically um
you can also there's also ways to get
they have parameters in the model that
you don't optimize a particular training
step but that's kind of advanced so um
the yeah yes then the the gradients will
be accumulated in the model and then
when you call the update they will be
used and cleared to zero so for example
let's say you wanted to iterate over ten
data points before you did an update you
could do that by just calling backwards
ten times and then calling update after
the tenth one so any other questions
okay
so um so yeah sorry I already covered
that um so now this was all very
elementary and you know not related to
NLP whatsoever but I have a couple
example implementations you'll notice on
the course website
I have code examples posted that you can
download and try to run yourself if you
want but the first thing we'll do is
basically a bag of words classifier so
the bag of words classifier was exactly
what I talked about before we we look up
things like this we add them together we
get scores and we calculate
probabilities so in order to interpret
the vectors basically each word has its
own five elements corresponding to very
good a good neutral bad very bad
so that was exactly what I just had up
here you know hate hate would have a
high value for very bad so let me let me
pull this up if I could find my mouse
so so this is an example
sorry I'm
good at neural networks but apparently
bad at manipulating user interfaces I
can't figure out how to get that okay
there we go um so here is our here's a
code example which will make a little
bit bigger so we import all our
libraries we import all the libraries
we'll be using like like this default
diktat cetera and run and hopefully it
will crash okay um so then the next
thing that we need to do sorry I kind of
skipped this over in the explanation but
when using neural networks for NLP
basically we need to convert words into
integer IDs so we have an integer ID
where each word in our vocabulary is
assigned to this and then we might also
have an unknown word ID here so this is
a little trick to get integer IDs if you
don't if you don't know this already you
can use a default dect where the lambda
is equal to its weight but that's not
super important and then we read in this
is a function to read in some data and
let me show you let me show you what the
data looks like this is data from a
sentiment from a sentiment corpus like
the one that I showed before
so this is an example from the training
set and basically these are all movie
reviews where each of the movie reviews
on the left side has a tab where the tag
1 or tech 0 is very bad to tag 4 is very
good so you can see the rock is destined
to be the 21st century's new Conan and
that he's going to make a splash even
greater than Arnold Schwarzenegger
jean-claude Van Damme or Steven Seagal
this seems like very good to me but for
some reason it's labeled good and then
you have a bunch of a bunch of kind of
good ones and then you go down to 0 a
sour little movie at its core and
exploration of the emptiness that
underlay the relentless gaiety of the
1920s the film's ending hands out what
was it all for so that's pretty brutal I
can see that being very bad this also
explains why language is hard you know
ok these are not these are not simple
sentences and we're being expected to
classify these um so so let's try to
process this data what we do is we
basically split it on this bar barbar
thing then for the thing on the right we
split it into words and then we assign
each word to an integer ID for the thing
on the Left we assign assign it to a tag
ID so we can do this so we just read in
the data set then if we want to examine
the data sets we can see we can print
out the first sentence of the training
corpus and we can see that it's
basically read in as a is a list of
integers and then we can take in the set
the second part of the training corpus
and this is this is a label 0 so then we
start dinette and define a trainer this
time we'll use a trainer called Adam
which I'll explain later
we define the model um so in this case
our model
is basically a thing where we want to
look up a vector of length 5 for each
word so then it has a concept called
lookup parameters so basically what we
do is we we say we want to look up
something of length n tags a vector of
length n tags and each of those will
have n words worth of those things to
look up then we also have a bias vector
of length n tags so this is the vector
of length 5 then we have our calculate
scores functions so if the calculate
scores function we renew the computation
graph because that's what we do we then
look up vectors for all of the words and
we add them together we take the bias
parameter we add it to the score and
then we return it and then we have this
big training loop within the big
training loop basically we do 100
iterations for each set of words and
tags in the training data we calculate
the loss function using this this magic
function picnic log softmax which I'll
talk about later if you don't know what
it is don't worry you'll know on
Thursday we add up the loss we do the
backward step etcetera so then in the
end we do evaluations so we calculate
the scores and we calculate the the
value for the scores and the and the
examples in the dub set we calculate the
maximum label and if it's equal to the
label that we're trying to predict we
get one correct and we print out our
accuracy so I think this is about 40 or
50 lines and you can build a sentiment
classifier that kind of works so let's
run this and hope I didn't break
anything
oh I didn't break anything I didn't
break anything but normally this is 0.4
seconds but right now it's three point
two nine seconds simply because I'm
recording video but nor normally this is
super fast and you get results
immediately but my computer is under
heavy load at the moment so I'll have to
rethink this when we start using more
complex models later because it will
really slow down my demos if I try the
demo anything oh well okay so yeah that
that's the basic thing for implementing
bag-of-words the bag of words is not is
not super interesting and we would like
to do something more complex which is
why you're in this class as opposed to
you know some other some other class
that didn't use neural networks but are
there any questions about this so yeah
yeah this is linked from the link from
the class site if it isn't please tell
me yes I am I realize I only have 20
minutes left but I think it should only
take about 20 minutes
maybe I'll accelerate to that so let's
let's take an example of let's skip one
example
um
so I'll just explain it very briefly so
we have the the continuous bag of words
so what this is doing it here is this is
adding things together like this but
instead of using these directly in the
predictions we treat this as a feature
vector and then we multiply this by a
weight matrix before adding our bias and
doing our prediction so these red
vectors here no longer have to be of
size 5 they could be of size 64 or
something like that and then as always
we we make our prediction so in this
case what do our vectors represent each
word basically has features some
features might be is this word inanimate
object
another feature might be is this a
positive word etc and then we sum these
features then use these to make
predictions but this is less interesting
and the reason why it's less interesting
is basically it still only has the
expressive power of a linear model but
it has some dimension reduction included
therein so it becomes more interesting
when we take these feature vectors and
then we we run them through a nonlinear
function like this I'll talk more about
the nonlinear functions we use but
basically the reason why this is
interesting is by combining things
together using a nonlinear function
these purple vectors here can learn
combination features and as I mentioned
before a combination features like not
love don't don't hate etc are very
informative and then maybe we'll run it
through another layer like this and well
add it to our bias and scores
and now our now things start to get
interesting we can learn these feature
combinations like feature 1 and feature
5 and capture things like like not in
hate so I will very briefly demonstrate
I won't actually run I won't actually
run this because as it was very rightly
pointed out we should talk
the quest format but I will just show
what it looks like here which you can
also review later but basically the idea
is now we add some extra parameters to
this model the these parameters
correspond to these the weight matrices
in the linear transform said I talked
about and etc and then we have a
slightly more complicated function where
basically we look up and sum the
embeddings together and then we do
multiple passes over this nonlinear
transformation and calculate the score
of the output so by doing this now
suddenly we have a model that can use
feature combinations and actually there
was a paper which I realized I have not
put on the website but I will put on the
website after this class by Mohit a year
at all that basically showed that a
simple model like this can actually be
pretty competitive for sentence
classification and it's super fast
compared to a lot of the alternatives so
yeah this is an example you can take
this you can take this home and look at
the code if you like try to run it but I
will get into the I will get into the
class format and then we can ask any
questions about this at the very end
so yeah oh so sorry I had a short
interlude before that so two things that
I'd like people to remember throughout
this entire class is um neural networks
are powerful I haven't talked about how
powerful they are yet but they are
extremely powerful and if you give them
lots and lots of data they will learn
things that you would never expect them
to be able to learn is my lesson from
the past three years observing how
things happen they learn things like
syntax they learn things like semantics
even when you're using relatively simple
models and in fact there you might have
heard this before but they're universal
function approximator z' which means
theoretically they can learn anything if
you have a big enough network with a few
qualifications to how you define
anything but they can basically learn
anything but language is hard which is
why I talked about this at the very
beginning language is a very hard
problem and the data that we can use to
train these it's often limited its
limited for certain tasks it's limited
for most tasks and in certain languages
so the main thing that we need to think
about when we're designing neural
networks for NLP is basically we'd like
to design networks so they can make the
best use of the limited data that
they're given I mean there's lots and
lots of ways to do this there's ways to
do this by designing them with the
appropriate structure there's ways to do
this by picking the appropriate learning
algorithm there's ways to do this by
doing regularization properly for
example this class is going to focus
mainly on the first one how you define
them with the the appropriate structure
for NLP problems because the other ones
you can get in other excellent classes
at CMU like deep learning or or stuff
like this but I will talk about them
briefly for people who are um yeah so
class format so the basic idea is that
there will be reading before the class
um so I expect that everybody here can
and I there's luckily lots of good
materials like the book by U of goldberg
tutorials online etc that i will be able
to link there will be a short quiz
before the class people who were in my
empty class we had a more a longer quiz
so this time I'm thinking about doing
multiple choice it should be easy if you
read the if you read the materials so it
shouldn't be I won't put any trick
questions etc in the class I will do a
very quick summary of the reading
material but also elaborate on like
recent topics or personal experiences or
stuff there will be questions and I at
this point I would definitely like
people in the class to speak up if you
have personal experience about this
because as I said I think a lot of
people do then at the very end there
will be a code walk it'll probably be
shorter than the one that I did now
because this was introducing introducing
the basics but we'll talk about how to
do an implementation of a simple model
using a demonstration code is the in
terms of how the how the course is based
it will be graded 20% on quizzes and
then 20% on to assignments and then 40%
of the final project the the first
assignment will be mostly a survey and
then also an implementation of a
baseline model and running it on real
data in this case we'll be providing you
code from a code walk the code from the
code walk so you can feel free to reuse
reuse that code I you should not use
code that already implements that model
like if that if that paper released the
code online I would like you to try at
least to redo it yourself and if you use
parts from that implementation at least
explain the parts that you did or how
you
referenced it the reason why is because
you know it's easy to reuse an
implementation and you don't learn
nearly as much by working through all
the details yourself the second
assignment is reimplemented reproduce
results from a state-of-the-art model so
basically the first model can be
something very simple the the second
model should be matching a paper that
was was presented recently and also for
the projects you can perform a unique
research project that improves on the
state of the art or applies neural net
models to a unique desk so I should
mention there's a few recommended tasks
on the website these are completely
recommendations you don't need to follow
each of them or you don't need to follow
the recommendations in fact if you want
to do something completely new that's
extremely welcome I'm happy to have
creative ideas for new tasks to handle
but before you do it I would like you to
ask me and I'd like to at least discuss
the evaluation how you will evaluate
your your task because that's actually
very difficult to get right
and I would like to make sure that you
you do get it right so we can calculate
the results if you use any of the
recommended tasks on the website or any
other standard and I'll be desk then you
don't need to consult with me but feel
free to do so
oh and the courses groups of two or
three so I would appreciate if you work
with with somebody else that was the
instructor is me as you might have
guessed the the TAS are hector leo who
isn't here yet but it will be here very
soon maxima and Daniel and Hector is an
expert on Co reference in discourse
modeling well they're all experts on
neural nets and NLP
Hector is an effort expert on Co
reference and discourse modeling Max is
an expert on kind of
that was structured structured
prediction structure of prediction
algorithms applied to dependency parsing
sequence labeling etc and dan has done
interesting work in dependency parsing
search problems etc and also some image
related stuff as well so we I think we
have a pretty broad coverage of tasks
although you know we could always have
more broad coverage if we had more
people but should be able to ask um the
preferred method for asking questions is
Piazza if you haven't used Piazza before
Piazza's in online bulletin board sites
its private to only members of the class
you can ask anonymous questions you can
ask questions directly to the instructor
you can ask questions that are not
anonymous the reason why this is great
is because if you have a question
probably three other people have the
same questions so if we ask here it's
it's more efficient and in terms of the
class plan the the first section is
basically models of words so if you know
where Dobek is if you know what fast
text is I'm going to talk about those
and much more and we're also going to
talk about speed tricks for neural
networks the speed tricks for neural
networks part I'm going to prepare the
materials but it's going to be by Taylor
burg Kirkpatrick because I won't be here
that day in the second section I'm going
to talk about models of sentences so how
do we how do we model entire sentences
using various methods bag of words this
bag of engrams convolutional nets etc
and also some applications of sentence
modeling like classification or
retrieval then I'm going to talk about
sequence to sequence models I teach an
entire class on this in the spring so
here I'm just going to cover it briefly
basically encoder/decoder attentional
models and a lot of the new the new
tricks that people do here as well after
that we're going to talk about
structured prediction
so this is basically the idea where we
have some sort of I guess dynamic
programming algorithm or algorithm that
works with the output of a neural
network to do to do a prediction in a
way that is non-trivial so this includes
things like structured perceptron
structured max margin conditional random
fields also some dependency parsing
models things like this
next we're going to talk about models of
tree structures so shift reduce and
minimum spanning tree parsing was
discovered and we're shift reducing MST
parsing covered in algorithms for a
no-no okay so we'll cover those in
detail I CKY was covering yes okay so I
will I will cover shift reduce and
minimum spanning tree parsing in a bit
of detail and then we can also talk
about recently there's been some
developments and models of graph
structures which are also also very
interesting and good for modeling things
like meaning semantic parsing there's
also a bunch of advanced learning
techniques including variational
autoencoders adversarial networks things
like marginal likelihood and
reinforcement learning and semi
supervised and unsupervised learning um
these are things that will be covered
more extensively in a deep learning
class but I will cover the very basics
um but also explain why they're
interesting from a language perspective
so what are the problems in language
that we would like to solve that these
give us tools to do so and I think
there's a lot of problems in language
that these give us tools to solve that
it would be more difficult to solve if
we didn't have those tools so this will
give a distinctly NLP flavor to these
topics um also in section 7 I'll be
talking about neural networks in
knowledge
so if we have a big database of
knowledge in the form of a knowledge
graph or something how do we out of the
UCS learning from more for relational
databases interfacing with relational
databases machine reading models and
reasoning with neural nets we also have
multitask and multilingual learning so
we might want to do things like take
translation is one task take part of
speech tagging is another task and use
each of these to inform the other so we
have lots of translation data we don't
have much part of speech tagging data so
can we use these to improve each other
also multilingual models as well we
might have lots of data in one language
and that and also advanced search
techniques we can talk about beam search
invariants a star search and also new
kind of new methods that have been
recently proposed so yeah that is all
and we have about five minutes for
questions are there any questions also
this is the first time I'm doing this
class so I will be making all the all
the materials in a rolling fashion which
means I have materials for this class in
next class so far and none for the rest
of the semester so this is your unique
opportunity to suggest topics that you
would like to you would like to hear of
happens the do you have any requests of
things that were also take requests via
Piazza or mail as well any question
yeah that's a good that's a good
question it the it depends how you
define complexity if you define
complexity as being very deep for
example you might have to use tricks to
train a network that is very very deep
to get it to work
which is something I'll talk about at
some point I'm not sure what other type
of complexity you would be you would be
talking about so one another example
that just sprang to mind is there
there's variational autoencoders in
general and for serial networks which
I'll be talking about in the advanced
things and these are more complex and
difficult optimized functions and you
need tricks to get them to work there
might be more complex functions that
that people have tried it and they don't
work and there certainly are times what
I've tried and things don't learn
properly um and those don't get written
in papers because it'll work
unfortunately so I have a lot of
examples of complex functions that work
after doing tricks but I don't have a
lot of examples of functions that just
don't work what's worse is it's a really
good question
um if not I'll wrap up and I can take
individual questions in the end and I
hope to see you on Thursday